Rephrase overview (#59)
runtimeverification/gitbook-kontrol: README.md

---

> description: Kontrol your smart contracts with easy-to-use formal verification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Kontrol your smart contracts with formal verification made simple
```

> description: Take Kontrol of your smart contracts with Simple Formal Verification

Author: Agree! I will make the changes as suggested.

> description: Take Kontrol of your smart contracts with Simple Formal Verification

Author: What do you think about this? I use the color green instead of blue for `easy-to-use formal verification`. I'm not sure if the tags are correct. Where can I test them?

```suggestion
description: Take <ins><font color="#F7CE55">K</font></ins><font color="#F7CE55">ontrol</font> of your smart contracts with <font color="#568A37">easy-to-use formal verification</font>
```

> description: Take Kontrol of your smart contracts with Simple Formal Verification

Reviewer: It looks like this, I used an online markdown generator: 
<img width="561" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8a1ca3c6-2ce9-4f92-b4a2-d10cf8ff140f">

> description: Take Kontrol of your smart contracts with Simple Formal Verification

Reviewer: And thanks! The "of" should be removed, but I guess it's fine even if we don't use any colored highlighting :) 

Maybe just "Kontrol your smart contracts with easy-to-use formal verification" in black?

> description: Take Kontrol of your smart contracts with Simple Formal Verification

Author: What about this?

```suggestion
description: <font color="#F7CE55"><ins>K</ins>ontrol</font> your smart contracts with easy-to-use formal verification
```

    visible: true
---

<div data-full-width="true">

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/kontrol logo yellow.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

</div>

# Kontrol

[**Kontrol**](https://github.com/runtimeverification/kontrol) is a powerful formal verification tool for EVM smart contracts that makes complex verification easy. Kontrol supports Foundry tests as specifications, which is especially useful for those who are not verification engineers. Additionally, developers can leverage existing Foundry test suites to do formal verification and increase the level of confidence.

> - **Open Source**: Kontrol is open source under the [BSD-3 Clause License](https://github.com/runtimeverification/kontrol/blob/master/LICENSE). This gives you full Kontrol to use, modify, and redistribute it according to your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Open Source**: Kontrol is open source under the [BSD-3 Clause License](https://github.com/runtimeverification/kontrol/blob/master/LICENSE). This gives you full kontrol to use, modify, and redistribute it according to your needs.
```

> - **User-Friendly**: Kontrol gives you the advantage of using languages and testing frameworks you’re already familiar with. Kontrol enables developers to write formal specifications as [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/) tests in [Solidity](https://soliditylang.org). In addition, this allows developers to reuse their existing test suites for formal verification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **User Friendly**: Kontrol gives you the advantage of using languages and testing frameworks you’re already familiar with. Kontrol enables developers to write formal specifications as [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/) tests in [Solidity](https://soliditylang.org). In addition, this allows developers to reuse their existing test suites for formal verification.
```

    visible: true
---

# Kontrol

<div data-full-width="true">

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/kontrol logo yellow.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

</div>

> [**Kontrol**](https://github.com/runtimeverification/kontrol) combines **KEVM** and [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/) to grant developers the ability to perform [formal verification](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formal\_verification) without learning a new language or tool. This is especially useful for those who are not verification engineers. Additionally, developers can leverage Foundry test suites they have already developed and use symbolic execution to increase the level of confidence.

Reviewer 2: I think we should add back in the mentions of Foundry, as the key UX point of Kontrol is that it does integrate with Foundry, so it does'nt take developers learning any new syntax or techniques above what they already know. But perhaps we can de-emphasize it and move it to the bullet-points below. I don't think we need to mention KEVM so prominently.

Reviewer 2: Addressed by @Stevengre

> Struggling to kontrol your smart contracts behave as intended, even after thorough unit testing, fuzzing, and other validation procedures? Frustrated with finding bugs in your code but unable to prove their absence?

Reviewer: I guess I wouldn't say that people are struggling to ensure their contracts behave as intended until they get hacked.  Maybe we can point out to external manual audits being less reliable and sustainable than automated tooling and CI? I just generally think that people really consider "unit testing, fuzzing, and other validation procedures" sufficient, so maybe we could reformulate it as something along the lines of  "Kontrol provides an easy-to-use yet powerful approach to formal verification, so you don't have to settle for techniques offering less security guarantees like fuzzing and unit testing".

Author: I want to express a situation that deeply resonates with developers. I'd prefer not to mention audits since we also provide audit services. What do you think about the following one?

```suggestion
[**Kontrol**](https://github.com/runtimeverification/kontrol) provides an easy-to-use yet powerful formal verification for smart contracts. It proves that smart contracts will execute exactly as you constrain them to, rather than just finding bugs. Formal constraints are provided in a way similar to foundry tests and can be integrated into CI processes through [KaaS](https://docs.runtimeverification.com/kaas). Thus, with minimal effort, it continuously offers higher security guarantees than fuzzing and unit testing.
```

Reviewer: Sure, please feel free to run it by him!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[**Kontrol**](https://github.com/runtimeverification/kontrol) is designed for you!

- **Open Source**: Kontrol is open source under the [BSD-3 Clause License](https://github.com/runtimeverification/kontrol/blob/master/LICENSE). This gives you full Kontrol to use, modify, and redistribute it according to your needs.

> - **Easy to Use**: Take advantage of the languages and tests you’re already familiar with. Kontrol enables developers to write formal specifications as [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/) test suites in [Solidity](https://soliditylang.org). It allows developers to reuse their existing test suites for formal verification. Even if you're not a verification engineer, Kontrol lets you formally verify your contracts in minutes.

Author: Make the functionality of Foundry clearer.

> - **Trustworthy**: Kontrol has a trustworthy mathematical foundation for specifying and verifying smart contracts. It is built on the open-source, validated, and intuitive formal semantics of Ethereum Bytecode, [KEVM](https://github.com/runtimeverification/evm-semantics). Thus, Kontrol how your smart contracts execute on the virtual machine exactly as you formally verified them.

Author: So, should we just delete it?

Reviewer 2: No, I think keep this one.

> - **Easy to Use**: Take advantage of the languages and tests you’re already familiar with. Kontrol enables developers to write formal specifications as [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/) test suites in [Solidity](https://soliditylang.org). It allows developers to reuse their existing test suites for formal verification. Even if you're not a verification engineer, Kontrol lets you formally verify your contracts in minutes.

Reviewer: I wouldn't really promise to verify a contract in minutes, because in a lot of real-world cases that may not happen.

```suggestion
- **Easy to Use**: Kontrol gives you the advantage of using languages and testing frameworks you’re already familiar with. Kontrol enables developers to write formal specifications as [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/) tests in [Solidity](https://soliditylang.org). In addition, this allows developers to reuse their existing test suites for formal verification.
```

Author: Thank you! I've committed your suggestion.

> - **Easy to Use**: Kontrol gives you the advantage of using languages and testing frameworks you’re already familiar with. Kontrol enables developers to write formal specifications as [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/) tests in [Solidity](https://soliditylang.org). In addition, this allows developers to reuse their existing test suites for formal verification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **User-Friendly**: Kontrol gives you the advantage of using languages and testing frameworks you’re already familiar with. Kontrol enables developers to write formal specifications as [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/) tests in [Solidity](https://soliditylang.org). In addition, this allows developers to reuse their existing test suites for formal verification.
```

> - **Scalable**: Kontrol automatically performs theorem proving on your specifications against your contracts through composable symbolic execution. It allows you to manipulate the proof process and provide simplification rules to achieve any proof goal. This ensures you can verify your contracts at any scale.

Reviewer: I think combining "theorem proving" and "composable symbolic execution" (I think we use "compositional" more commonly in the codebase/options/etc) might confuse people who have some familiarity with FV. Maybe we can instead something like this? 

```suggestion
- **Scalable**: Kontrol automatically performs verifies your contracts against the specification by using compositional symbolic execution. In addition to automated verification, Kontrol allows you to manipulate the proof process and provide simplification rules to achieve any proof goal, ensuring that you can verify your contracts at any scale.
```

Author: But doesn't this make our feature seem too vague? In my view, symbolic execution has its limitations, e.g., state space explosion or bounded depths. However, we do not. Even though we automatically prove the goals through symbolic execution, the theoretical foundation behind it is matching logic. 

1. The symbolic execution is indeed a proof generation process. 
2. The KCFG actually serves as a proof (or proof hint) in matching logic that can be verified using a proof checker. 

Therefore, the trust basis and actual implications are fundamentally different from traditional symbolic execution.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Scalable**: Kontrol automatically verifies your contracts against your formal specifications via composable symbolic execution. Furthermore, Kontrol generates manipulable proofs of the verification process and enables users to provide simplification rules to achieve any proof goal. This guarantees that you can verify your contracts at any scale.
```

> - **Trustworthy**: Kontrol has a trustworthy mathematical foundation for specifying and verifying smart contracts. It is built on the open-source, validated, and intuitive formal semantics of Ethereum Bytecode, [KEVM](https://github.com/runtimeverification/evm-semantics). Thus, Kontrol how your smart contracts execute on the virtual machine exactly as you formally verified them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Trustworthy**: Kontrol has a trustworthy mathematical foundation for specifying and verifying smart contracts. It is built on the open-source, validated, and intuitive formal semantics of Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) bytecode, [KEVM](https://github.com/runtimeverification/evm-semantics). This provides an additional guarantee that the smart contracts you have verified will demonstrate the exact same behavior when executed by the virtual machine.
```

> Even better, we provide a delivery platform for you to perform CI-Integrated, Cloud-based Formal Verification on your contracts without the need to set up your own infrastructure.

Author: I want to advertise KaaS, but it seems not very attractive.

> Even better, we provide a delivery platform for you to perform CI-Integrated, Cloud-based Formal Verification on your contracts without the need to set up your own infrastructure.

Author: I want to advertise KaaS, but current description looks not very attractive.

> Even better, [KaaS](https://docs.runtimeverification.com/kaas) is a cloud-based solution that allows you to perform CI-Integrated formal verification on your contracts with speed and ease.

Reviewer: - **CI Integrated**: It addition to running locally, Kontrol can also be integrated into your project's CI for continuous assurance and perform cloud-based verification via [KaaS](https://docs.runtimeverification.com/kaas).

Author: I've added this information to the first paragraph. What do you think?

Reviewer 3: I think what Palina is saying in her comment is that we should add a "CI Integrated:..." Bullet to the list above this paragraph so that it is more consistent with this section. I personally think it looks better that way, but I don't think it looks or reads poorly in either case.

> Even better, [KaaS](https://docs.runtimeverification.com/kaas) is a cloud-based solution that allows you to perform CI-Integrated formal verification on your contracts with speed and ease.

Author: ```suggestion
- **CI Integrated**: In addition to running locally, Kontrol can be integrated into your project's CI for continuous assurance, cloud-based verification, and visualization capabilities via [KaaS](https://docs.runtimeverification.com/kaas).
```
